# Titanic Survival Prediction

This project aims to predict the survival of passengers aboard the Titanic using machine learning techniques. The dataset used for this project contains information about passengers such as age, sex, ticket class, and fare, among others.

## Data Cleaning and Machine Learning

The Jupyter Notebook file `Titanic Survival Prediction.ipynb` contains the code for both data cleaning and building the machine learning model. In this notebook, the following steps were executed:

1. **Data Cleaning:**

   - **Handling Missing Values:** Identified and handled missing values in the dataset using techniques like imputation or removal.
   
   - **Feature Engineering:** Created new features or modified existing ones to extract relevant information for the prediction task.
   
   - **Data Transformation:** Converted categorical variables into numerical representations using techniques like one-hot encoding or label encoding.

2. **Model Building:**

   - **Data Preprocessing:** Prepared the data for model training by scaling numerical features and splitting the dataset into training and testing sets.
   
   - **Model Selection:** Explored various machine learning algorithms such as Decision Trees, Random Forest, and Logistic Regression to find the best performing model.
   
   - **Model Training:** Trained the selected model on the training data.
   
   - **Model Evaluation:** Evaluated the model's performance on the testing data using appropriate evaluation metrics such as accuracy, precision, recall, and F1-score.

## Results

The predictions made by the machine learning model are stored in the Excel file `resultfile_update.xlsx`, which is located beside the Jupyter Notebook file. This file contains the passenger IDs and their corresponding predicted survival outcomes.

## Dependencies

To run the code in this notebook, the following Python libraries are required:

- pandas
- numpy
- scikit-learn

Install these dependencies using pip:

```
pip install pandas numpy scikit-learn
```

## Usage

1. Clone this repository to your local machine.
2. Open the Jupyter Notebook file `Titanic Survival Prediction.ipynb` using Jupyter Notebook or JupyterLab.
3. Follow the instructions provided in the notebook to execute the code and reproduce the results.
4. View the predictions in the Excel file `resultfile_update.xlsx` generated by the machine learning model.

## Contact:
For any questions or suggestions related to this repository, feel free to reach out via:
- Email: [kumar.prateek2004@gmail.com](mailto:kumar.prateek2004@gmail.com)
- GitHub: [prateek7204](https://github.com/prateek7204)
